# About the invisible college

Back to basics.  A network to learn and create.  Continuing an
[old tradition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Invisible_College), but
with internet tools.


## Projects

- **Statebus** makes it easier to **create** on top of other people's creations
- **Cheeseburger** helps you **learn** to think without distortion
- **Considerit** helps a group **learn** the opinions of its members
- **Tawk.space** helps flexible groups meet and talk about anything

## Invisible
This college supports the invisible parts of education and ressearch.

Some progress is invisible to a teacher or peers:
  - Learning a personal spiritual lesson
  - Creating art that's personally rather than socially meaningful
  - Creating work in a new paradigm

Sometimes the visible parts of academia get in the way
  - Grades
  - Awards
  - Titles and prestige

These things cannot measure all progress, and a college can focus too
much on the things it measures, excluding the invisible parts.  For
instance, students are often disallowed to teach until they become
professors (or in rare cases "teaching assistants").  "Research", or
"learning something that isn't in a book yet," is put off until
graduate school.


## Learn and Create

The college helps people learn to create.  Some people contribute to
the college's ability to help people learn and create.  They might do
that by helping the college learn, or by creating something in the
college.

The people who contribute to the college itself are contributors.  The
people who use the services of the college for their own lives are
users.

From wikipedia:

> Learning is the act of acquiring new, or modifying and reinforcing, existing knowledge, behaviors, skills, values, or preferences.  The ability to learn is possessed by humans, animals, plants and some machines.

We are learning skills and behaviors.

We can ask ourselves "What do we want to be able to do?"

We can declare our desired abilities to one another, and measure our
progress in getting there.

Learning is how we become better people. We can test ourselves. One
test is to see if we are able to create.

We test our learning best with reality. We want to learn towards
reality. Adapt to reality. Traditional school goes bad in getting
divorced from reality. The tests (grades, degrees, papers, funding)
are abstracted, and incur a loss. Really smart people waste time
learning abstractions instead of powerful reality adaptations.

### Create

We can also ask ourselves "What do we want to create?" and watch our progress getting there.

We want to be creative.

We could teach people to make wordpress sites, but that's not as creative as learning to make new paradigms of blogs.

## Relating to Colleges

The invisible college permeates all colleges. Journals originated in
the invisible college of the royal society; a communication medium
that spans physical campuses.

Some people work entirely within physical/traditional colleges.  I
happen work entirely within the invisible college.  The invisible
college has fewer constraints, more freedoms. The downside is that you
have to find your own funding.

Our group is challenging itself to find independent funding, so that
we can drop out of the traditional college system complete and spend
all our time in the invisible college.  To let go of that physical
social structure, and learn to swim and float in the free space below.

## As a College

The college succeeds when it helps individuals Learn & Create.

The college gets better when individuals Learn & Create contributions
to helping others Learn & Create.

  - Therapy helps us learn spiritual lessons
  - Statebus helps people create into other projects, and makes it
    easier to learn to program
  - Considerit helps a group learn and adapt

We can measure our contributions to the college by seeing how it has
helped us learn and create. Recently, you guys have helped me with
statebus, for instance. Our therapy has helped me, personally, learn
spiritual lessons.

## Learning and Creating are Duals

To create, you're learning a thing in the future.

Science is usually about learning. Computer Science is often about
creating. People say it's a Science of the Artificial.

## Money

A Creation might become a business that makes money.

A Learning might charge tuition.

Especially if someone wants to learn something boring like wordpress
that makes money, they'll likely pay tuition. But if they want to
become a creative person, then someone might mentor them for free.

## Different than School

Different Tests.

**Money:** School has a goal of removing money from the picture. But then
you end up with monopoly control over money, and its inefficiency/cost
has gotten too large. Feels like slavery. We need more competition,
options, and freedom for funding. So our people should take on the
challenge of finding money as part of their learning, and we should
help them learn to get money.

**Values:** School enforces some (especially catholic school). In
invisible college you'll make your own, and also find your own money.